3-connector-rest-apis/README.md, before:

# Deploying EDP Rest APIs Connector

This tutorial shows you how to configure the Cloud Build to deploy the API Education over the Data Platform Foundation.

The following diagram is a high-level reference of the resources created and managed here:

![API Education Data Platform](docs/img/API-Pipeline.drawio.png)

After you provision the [Data Platform Foundation](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/cloud-foundation-fabric/tree/master/blueprints/data-solutions/data-platform-foundations) you need to [create a Cloud Storage Bucket in GCP](https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/creating-buckets) in the drop-off project to store the Terraform state file and reserve the following values for the next steps:

- Drop-off Project ID **(PREFIX-drp)**.
- Name of the Drop-off Bucket **(PREFIX-drp-cs-0)**.
- Composer Service Account Email **(PREFIX-orc-cmp-0@PREFIX-orc.iam.gserviceaccount.com)**.
- Region in which the EDP resources were created.
- The endpoint name for the Cloud Function responsible for API ingestion **(PREFIX)**.
- Grant 'Storage Object Creator' role in the Orchestration Project (**PREFIX-orc**) for the Cloud Build Service Account that is going to be created in the Drop-off project.

You are going to use the above information to create a trigger in Drop-off project, as described in the following steps.

## Trigger for Education API

1. First you select the Dropoff Project (**PREFIX-drp**)

  ![Project List](docs/img/project-list.png)

2. Once in the project context, go to the Cloud Build Triggers

  ![Cloud Build](docs/img/cloud-build.png)

3. Select the option **CREATE TRIGGER**

  ![Create Trigger](docs/img/create-trigger.png)

4. Give a name to the trigger and select the option for trigger invokation

  ![Create Trigger](docs/img/create-trigger-2.png)

5. On 'Source' click on the Repository Box and select the option **CONNECT NEW REPOSITORY**

<p align="left">
    <img src="docs/img/create-trigger-3.png" width="600" height="350">
</p>

6. Select the Service Source and click on Continue

  ![Create Trigger](docs/img/create-trigger-4.png)

7. Authenticate on the Service Source, select the Repository, check the box accepting the conditions and click in **CONNECT**

  ![Create Trigger](docs/img/create-trigger-5.png)

8. Add the filter to trigger the build modifications only in the folders for API Pipeline Bucket

  ![Create Trigger](docs/img/create-trigger-6.png)

9. On Configuration select the option **Cloud Build configguration file (yaml or json)** and inform the relational path to the build file

  ![Create Trigger](docs/img/create-trigger-7.png)

10. On Advanced select the option **ADD VARIABLE** and create the following variable with the name of Load Cloud Storage

| Variables                 | Example value                                       | Description                         |
|---------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------|
| _BUCKET_CONFIG            | tfstate-bucket                                      | Bucket Name for Terraform tfstate   |
| _BUCKET_ID                | PREFIX-drp-cs-0                                     | Bucket Name of Drop-off environment |
| _COMPOSER_IAM_EMAIL       | PREFIX-orc-cmp-0@PREFIX-orc.iam.gserviceaccount.com | Composer Service Account email      |
| _DATAFLOW_COMPOSER_BUCKET | REGION-PREFIX-orc-cmp-0-RANDOM_ID-bucket            | Name of Composer Bucket             |
| _PREFIX                   | api                                                 | Name of Cloud Function prefix       |
| _PROJECT_ID               | PREFIX-drp                                          | ID of the Drop-off project          |
| _REGION                   | europe-west1                                        | Region of the deploy                |

  ![Create Trigger](docs/img/create-trigger-8.png)

11. Click on **CREATE**

12. Go to Cloud Build Settings and get the Cloud Build Service Account email

  ![Create Trigger](docs/img/create-trigger-9.png)

13. Go to Orchestration Project (**PREFIX-orc**)

  ![Create Trigger](docs/img/project-list-2.png)

14. Select IAM & Admin

  ![Create Trigger](docs/img/create-trigger-10.png)

15.  Click in **GRANT ACCESS** inform the Service Account email in 'New principals' and select the Role '**Storage Admin(roles/storage.admin)**'

<p align="left">
    <img src="docs/img/create-trigger-10-a.png" width="500" height="350">
</p>

16. Next you select the Dropoff Project (**PREFIX-drp**)

  ![Project List](docs/img/project-list.png)

17. Click in **GRANT ACCESS** inform the Service Account email in 'New principals' and select the Roles:

- '**Storage Admin(roles/storage.Admin)**'
- '**Service Account User(roles/iamserviceAccountUser)**'
- '**Create Service Account(roles/iam.serviceAccounts.create)**'
- '**Cloud Functions Admin(roles/cloudfunctions.admin)**'
- '**Security Admin(roles/iam.securityAdmin)**' 


  ![Create Trigger](docs/img/create-trigger-11.1.png)


## How to run

After creating the Cloud Build trigger on your drop-off project, you need to configure the [gcp_api/config.json](gcp_api/config.json) file according to your parameters.

You need to setup all the variables according to your project information before running the pipelines (instructions in the following session).

As soon as you commit the updated config.json file in your GitHub repository, Cloud Build is going to be triggered and all the files needed for this deploy is going to be loaded automatically in your Education Data Platform in GCP.

## Cloud Function (API)

The API connector in EDP is meant to consume other APIs and generate files (JSON or CSV) inside a bucket, in the GCP environment.
The API was built using a cloud function and its use is very flexible, allowing the consumption of several endpoints in the same processing.

To use the function, update the configuration file (config.json) in the Dropoff Bucket (PREFIX-drp-cs-0), folder config - in the GCP environment with the following parameters:

- "project_id": "Project ID of the Dropoff Project PREFIX-drp";
- "bucket": "Name of the Dropoff Bucket ID PREFIX-drp-cs-0 that contains the configuration file with the name config.json";
- "api_path": "Folder name where the function will save the returned APIs consumed in JSON or CSV format;
- "api_uri": "http or https address of the function (trigger)";
- "endpoints": "List of objects containing the necessary information for the correct functioning of the function";

Within the list of endpoints, it is necessary to assemble objects with the following structure:

- "url": "API / Endpoint address to be consumed";
- "type": "Output file format (JSON or CSV)";
- "blob": "Path inside the bucket to generate the files (by default use a name of your choice plus '/load' for correct integration with the bigquery load routines"; The name of the folder where the file is stored will be the name of the BigQuery table
- "project_id_bq": "Id of project that contains the BigQuery tables - Landing Raw Data (PREFIX-dwh-lnd)"
- "dataset_name": "Name of the dataset where the moodle tables will be stored in the Landing Raw Data (PREFIX-dwh-lnd)"
- "retention_data": "Time in seconds for the table partition data retention"

## Cloud Composer

The Cloud Composer is going to be used as a orchestration solution of ingestion pipelines of data from API execution pipeline, besides other process auxiliary DAG's.

After deploy the API connector artifacts, you are going to find the following DAGs deployed on Cloud Composer in the orchestration project (**PREFIX-orc**):

- API_pipeline: call the Rest APIs parameterized in the config files and load the json or csv files in the drop off bucket;
- bq_load: load the json or csv files ingested by the API_pipeline DAG in the BigQuery landing zone.

Commit message:

API connector README: new maximum instances variable

3-connector-rest-apis/README.md, after:

# Deploying EDP Rest APIs Connector

This tutorial shows you how to configure the Cloud Build to deploy the API Education over the Data Platform Foundation.

The following diagram is a high-level reference of the resources created and managed here:

![API Education Data Platform](docs/img/API-Pipeline.drawio.png)

After you provision the [Data Platform Foundation](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/cloud-foundation-fabric/tree/master/blueprints/data-solutions/data-platform-foundations) you need to [create a Cloud Storage Bucket in GCP](https://cloud.google.com/storage/docs/creating-buckets) in the drop-off project to store the Terraform state file and reserve the following values for the next steps:

- Drop-off Project ID **(PREFIX-drp)**.
- Name of the Drop-off Bucket **(PREFIX-drp-cs-0)**.
- Composer Service Account Email **(PREFIX-orc-cmp-0@PREFIX-orc.iam.gserviceaccount.com)**.
- Region in which the EDP resources were created.
- The endpoint name for the Cloud Function responsible for API ingestion **(PREFIX)**.
- Grant 'Storage Object Creator' role in the Orchestration Project (**PREFIX-orc**) for the Cloud Build Service Account that is going to be created in the Drop-off project.

You are going to use the above information to create a trigger in Drop-off project, as described in the following steps.

## Trigger for Education API

1. First you select the Dropoff Project (**PREFIX-drp**)

  ![Project List](docs/img/project-list.png)

2. Once in the project context, go to the Cloud Build Triggers

  ![Cloud Build](docs/img/cloud-build.png)

3. Select the option **CREATE TRIGGER**

  ![Create Trigger](docs/img/create-trigger.png)

4. Give a name to the trigger and select the option for trigger invokation

  ![Create Trigger](docs/img/create-trigger-2.png)

5. On 'Source' click on the Repository Box and select the option **CONNECT NEW REPOSITORY**

<p align="left">
    <img src="docs/img/create-trigger-3.png" width="600" height="350">
</p>

6. Select the Service Source and click on Continue

  ![Create Trigger](docs/img/create-trigger-4.png)

7. Authenticate on the Service Source, select the Repository, check the box accepting the conditions and click in **CONNECT**

  ![Create Trigger](docs/img/create-trigger-5.png)

8. Add the filter to trigger the build modifications only in the folders for API Pipeline Bucket

  ![Create Trigger](docs/img/create-trigger-6.png)

9. On Configuration select the option **Cloud Build configguration file (yaml or json)** and inform the relational path to the build file

  ![Create Trigger](docs/img/create-trigger-7.png)

10. On Advanced select the option **ADD VARIABLE** and create the following variable with the name of Load Cloud Storage

| Variables                 | Example value                                       | Description                         |
|---------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------|-------------------------------------|
| _BUCKET_CONFIG            | tfstate-bucket                                      | Bucket Name for Terraform tfstate   |
| _BUCKET_ID                | PREFIX-drp-cs-0                                     | Bucket Name of Drop-off environment |
| _COMPOSER_IAM_EMAIL       | PREFIX-orc-cmp-0@PREFIX-orc.iam.gserviceaccount.com | Composer Service Account email      |
| _DATAFLOW_COMPOSER_BUCKET | REGION-PREFIX-orc-cmp-0-RANDOM_ID-bucket            | Name of Composer Bucket             |
| _PREFIX                   | api                                                 | Name of Cloud Function prefix       |
| _PROJECT_ID               | PREFIX-drp                                          | ID of the Drop-off project          |
| _REGION                   | us-west1                                            | Region of the deploy                |
| _INSTANCES                | 5                                                   | Cloud Function maximum instances    |

  ![Create Trigger](docs/img/create-trigger-8.png)

11. Click on **CREATE**

12. Go to Cloud Build Settings and get the Cloud Build Service Account email

  ![Create Trigger](docs/img/create-trigger-9.png)

13. Go to Orchestration Project (**PREFIX-orc**)

  ![Create Trigger](docs/img/project-list-2.png)

14. Select IAM & Admin

  ![Create Trigger](docs/img/create-trigger-10.png)

15.  Click in **GRANT ACCESS** inform the Service Account email in 'New principals' and select the Role '**Storage Admin(roles/storage.admin)**'

<p align="left">
    <img src="docs/img/create-trigger-10-a.png" width="500" height="350">
</p>

16. Next you select the Dropoff Project (**PREFIX-drp**)

  ![Project List](docs/img/project-list.png)

17. Click in **GRANT ACCESS** inform the Service Account email in 'New principals' and select the Roles:

- '**Storage Admin(roles/storage.Admin)**'
- '**Service Account User(roles/iamserviceAccountUser)**'
- '**Create Service Account(roles/iam.serviceAccounts.create)**'
- '**Cloud Functions Admin(roles/cloudfunctions.admin)**'
- '**Security Admin(roles/iam.securityAdmin)**' 


  ![Create Trigger](docs/img/create-trigger-11.1.png)


## How to run

After creating the Cloud Build trigger on your drop-off project, you need to configure the [gcp_api/config.json](gcp_api/config.json) file according to your parameters.

You need to setup all the variables according to your project information before running the pipelines (instructions in the following session).

As soon as you commit the updated config.json file in your GitHub repository, Cloud Build is going to be triggered and all the files needed for this deploy is going to be loaded automatically in your Education Data Platform in GCP.

## Cloud Function (API)

The API connector in EDP is meant to consume other APIs and generate files (JSON or CSV) inside a bucket, in the GCP environment.
The API was built using a cloud function and its use is very flexible, allowing the consumption of several endpoints in the same processing.

To use the function, update the configuration file (config.json) in the Dropoff Bucket (PREFIX-drp-cs-0), folder config - in the GCP environment with the following parameters:

- "project_id": "Project ID of the Dropoff Project PREFIX-drp";
- "bucket": "Name of the Dropoff Bucket ID PREFIX-drp-cs-0 that contains the configuration file with the name config.json";
- "api_path": "Folder name where the function will save the returned APIs consumed in JSON or CSV format;
- "api_uri": "http or https address of the function (trigger)";
- "endpoints": "List of objects containing the necessary information for the correct functioning of the function";

Within the list of endpoints, it is necessary to assemble objects with the following structure:

- "url": "API / Endpoint address to be consumed";
- "type": "Output file format (JSON or CSV)";
- "blob": "Path inside the bucket to generate the files (by default use a name of your choice plus '/load' for correct integration with the bigquery load routines"; The name of the folder where the file is stored will be the name of the BigQuery table
- "project_id_bq": "Id of project that contains the BigQuery tables - Landing Raw Data (PREFIX-dwh-lnd)"
- "dataset_name": "Name of the dataset where the moodle tables will be stored in the Landing Raw Data (PREFIX-dwh-lnd)"
- "retention_data": "Time in seconds for the table partition data retention"

## Cloud Composer

The Cloud Composer is going to be used as a orchestration solution of ingestion pipelines of data from API execution pipeline, besides other process auxiliary DAG's.

After deploy the API connector artifacts, you are going to find the following DAGs deployed on Cloud Composer in the orchestration project (**PREFIX-orc**):

- API_pipeline: call the Rest APIs parameterized in the config files and load the json or csv files in the drop off bucket;
- bq_load: load the json or csv files ingested by the API_pipeline DAG in the BigQuery landing zone.
